Calvin, welcome to Talk Python To Me.
It's great to finally have you on the show.
What have you been doing all this time?
I don't know. Not being on your show, I guess.
I actually was super excited when you asked if I could be on here
because this has been like a life goal,
at least a goal since Talk Python To Me has ever existed.
I really appreciate that. That's very kind.
Well, it's great to have you on here.
And I am all about DevOps and deployment these days.
I think it's another superpower that I think people can really have.
You've got an idea.
You want to deploy the dream as the song that we'll play later, we'll say.
And if you're not familiar with this stuff, it's a huge roadblock.
You're like, oh, I built this thing, but how do I get it up there?
And how could I keep it running?
Yeah.
And so what we're going to talk about is a framework you all have created to make this much more automated and easy and packaged up, if you will.
Yeah, I agree.
The develop part of the developer experience, not just not just the deployment story, but how do I make a developer be productive from day one?
Like I get super obsessed about the experience.
Like, is it smooth?
Is it easy?
Can can developers like join your organization and be productive right away?
That's important to me as an owner of a business who produces software.
We'll start there.
Who are you?
What is your business?
What do you do?
Set the stage for everyone.
All right.
So my name is Calvin Hendryx-Parker.
I am CTO and co-founder of Six Feet Up.
We are a Python and AI for good software agency based out of the Midwest here in Indiana.
But we have folks all across the country and a few folks across the globe.
We help impactful tech leaders level up their game.
Like if you've got an idea and you can see the future,
part of our goal is to make that happen.
Like we love tackling the super hard software problems.
The harder, the better, and the more unique,
and the more impactful, the better.
Part of our goal has been to do 100 impactful projects by 2033.
And those impactful projects are things
that are making the world a better place.
So some of our projects do actually impact climate or energy.
We've done some stuff with NASA on space travel.
So it's cool stuff like that that the people who work at Six Feet Up get super excited about.
And part of what drives me to do what we do every day, for sure.
Yeah.
And to get to work on space travel.
Oh, man.
It's like, I'm getting up early today.
It's literally rocket science.
Literally rocket science.
Yeah.
How amazing.
And you've been doing Python for a long time.
You've been involved since the early days, right?
Yeah.
I first adopted or touched Python in literally the year 2000.
I started working.
I was in a startup in the Bay Area.
And the guy sitting next to me was like, check out this Python-based application server called Zope.
And at that point in time in my life, I had just graduated college.
And I think I understood the three words in between all the other words that he just said.
And so that was a whole new world that got opened up to me.
And so I started out my journey in Python really with Zope as the first thing that got me in.
But back in that day, Zope and BitTorrent were kind of the killer apps for Python.
If folks remember, there were Zope tracks at PyCon.
And G-Notes were around Zope.
It was the thing.
I still attribute that community to really bringing me into Python and getting me engaged.
It's some of the smartest people I've ever worked with who are part of that open source community who made that a thing.
And I'm still friends with those people today.
You know, people like Paul Everitt and Trey Seaver.
And those folks were really part of my upbringing into the Python community.
And I can't thank them enough.
That's awesome.
You know, there's a really interesting fact that was shown at least amongst survey respondents in the PSF JetBrains survey, speaking of Paul Everitt.
that i would say 40 of the people who are doing python these days are two years or less into it
wow which is an incredible statistic i think 30 30 or so is this is their first year and then you
know the rest of the second year so we're amongst the rare birds but the reason i bring
that 25 years later we're still here doing it exactly uh the reason i bring that up is you know
I suspect people who have been at this for three or four years maybe don't know what Zope is.
They probably heard the word, but they're like, yeah.
Is that like a thing that Django does?
Tell people what Zope is real quick.
I mean, the application framework space back in the 2000s was not a crowded space.
There weren't many options.
And I think the beauty of what Zope was an application framework, it had some interesting opinions.
one of them being the ZODB, which I still do love to this day,
which is an object graph database
that enabled you to build applications quickly.
And I think initially one of their goals
was like through the web, even.
Like if you remember Z classes,
like you could build and rapid prototype
through the web, you know, in your browser.
I mean, this is the year 2000.
This is not last year, like where people were like,
wow, cool, this is low code thing.
Like this was that 25 years ago.
This was ahead of its time.
Way ahead of its time.
Now, granted, I don't think that was not the future.
That shouldn't be the future.
I'm actually hoping to give some conference talks this year
about low code, no code, and my opinions on that.
Especially, actually, I should frame it
in my context of Zope and ZClasses.
But maybe that's too much of an inside joke.
I don't know if enough people would even understand
what I'm talking about there.
Because like you said,
so many people are new to the community,
which I think is awesome.
I think that shows it's a vibrant, growing community.
If you're in a community and you're wondering or worrying
where the new next generation is going to come from,
there's a problem.
And I don't think that Python has that problem.
Python has an incredible traction with new people.
And I've always loved it because of the simplicity.
I love it because the language is predictable in its patterns.
It's not a cognitive overhead to remember all the various ways
to call things in Python
because typically they're pretty consistent.
Yeah.
But Python's slow.
We can't use it for stuff.
I do not believe that for a second.
No.
I think if you're doing maybe mathematical simulations
or certain types of really, really intense,
low level things, maybe.
But as a general application framework,
it flies.
It's fine.
Yeah.
And that's the problem too,
is that if you go off right now
and you ask your ChatGPT or your Claude
about like, you know, maybe what are some disadvantages of Python? It's going to mention
these kind of broad, old opinions about it, because it only knows the average of all the
knowledge has ever been on the internet. And I think that's why it's learned a bunch of like
trash talk as well. Exactly. And which is mostly inaccurate. But if you ask it to dig deeper,
and you know, someday we'll be able to ask it, think a little more critically,
you probably dig in and get the truth. Yeah. Bit of a side note, I recently for a couple
things i needed got the chat gpt pro not the paid version but the insane pro version oh the 200
yeah like 200 a month and i laughed at myself like this is the stupidest thing i've ever done
but i need it so i'm gonna do it for a little few days turn off it's incredible i'm not turning off
it's it's like my my side buddy i can ask anything and it's it's so it is so good
the the future is here is just not evenly distributed you know it's not evenly distributed
because it's hard for most folks
to have the right mindset, I think,
to approach to get that level of value out of it.
I think you have to know how to talk to it.
And I've said this before.
It's the same problem with people
who aren't good at using Google,
just plain old search.
Like, you know, the people who have to say,
let me Google that for you
are the ones who understand
how to like use the search engine,
you know, well, some people...
You know, that can be answered
in an exact phrase if you just...
say the phrase just say the phrase you know yeah and it's also a mindset right like i i started
thinking like instead of this is a cost or something like this is like another employee
that i can just give jobs and five minutes later i'll come back and it's it's done pretty thorough
research you know it's yeah especially with the new scheduling feature where you can actually
schedule tasks to happen i'm getting kind of excited about everyone's talking about agents
And I know this isn't the AI show we're here to talk about, but I think agents are interesting,
but we're not there yet.
They're about the level of maybe interns and what you would trust them to do for you.
Yeah, I totally agree.
I'm a little worried about what all this stuff is going to do to the industry in the broad
sense.
My main concern is I think it'll sort of carve out that gap between early dev and senior
dev, and it's going to be harder for folks to cross that.
Yeah.
But it's also an incredible technology.
And I think it's also silly to pretend it doesn't exist.
So anyway, you're right.
It's not the AI show, but boy, is it on top of mind for a lot of us, right?
Yeah, for sure.
Yeah.
Okay.
So let's talk Python deployment.
Let's talk some pitfalls, maybe a little bit of Docker.
How's this?
It's interesting.
Why did you all attack this problem?
And I guess setting the stages, where does this fit in your consulting story, right?
You must need to deliver these applications often in a way that people can continue to keep them going on their own without you constantly going back.
Yeah, there's some pip updates, so we'll take care of that for you.
Well, and that definitely reaches into the longer tale of the whole story.
but I think if you go back to the beginning of the story of deployment a lot of us started out
or a lot of us older ones more seasoned veteran developer folks in a world where if you wanted
to deploy your web application you threw some php into a web route and as long as you had you know
mod php installed the stuff ran like you didn't have to think about configuring ingress and egress
routes and it was you know databases just ran on the same server you were on so you just ran it on
host like it's the world has changed when it comes to the deployment story but it's because things
have gotten more complex and sophisticated because they had to like we had needs for
more sophisticated authentication mechanism we have needs for caching and delivery we have needs
for time series data like the because those opportunities opened up more sophisticated
software gets built which means it's a little trickier to deploy well looking back and and you
your perspective of all this experience as well,
something I've seen,
every time the technology gets easier to work with,
that used to be 100 lines of code.
Now it's three.
Well, we're going to be out of jobs soon.
A lot of people would say,
it's like, no, we're just going to solve
bigger and more ambitious problems.
And that's been the case for so long.
It's not that, well, things got easier,
so we're not going to do it.
No, every time it got easier,
we were able to just think of bigger, more.
Instead of, we don't need a team.
one person can solve this amazing problem.
But that means underneath that,
there's this mountain,
this iceberg of stuff going on, right?
Well, and that's what,
I think that's where deployment has gotten,
I think hard in a lot of people's minds
is because there is a mountain of knowledge,
like there's a giant shoulders
that you're standing on
that makes that happen.
And my VP of engineering
was complaining to me yesterday,
like, why can't we just,
how can we not easily put websites
internet anymore. And it's not that we can't put websites on the internet anymore. They just do so
much for us. Like the complexity and the sophistication under the covers is what's causing
a lot of this like issues. And the person who wrote software is not always the person who
deploys software because, because I think they've just got kind of different mindsets or different
ways of thinking about the problems. And it's rare you find people who are truly a full stack
can do front end to the backend, to the database, to the network, to all the layers that are in
between. And it's nice that services like, you know, the cloud have come about where it simply
greatly simplifies that deployment. I mean, that was part of our journey into containers.
I was resistant to containers probably until 2020. When we did in 2020, there was a change,
obviously some things happened in the world, but we also built more time to be at home and think
about stuff. Right. But we also had time to build some software to help us empower a little conference
we were doing. We put on the Python web conference during the pandemic. We actually started the
pre-pandemic, but during the pandemic, we took time to write some software to deploy a virtual
event platform. And I think containers, at that point in time, I adopted containers and container
orchestration because it allowed the developers to think more about developing and less about
the deploying part of a sophisticated application like streaming web video, audio mixing, switching,
live chats and web sockets. I mean, there's a whole lot of moving parts in something when you're
delivering a live video conference experience. And the containers were a nice equalizing layer
to allow us to say, I don't care where it goes to, whether it's in Docker Compose or Kubernetes
or Docker Swarm, or in our case, we used Amazon's Fargate
because I just didn't want to deal with infrastructure.
I just told Fargate, I got some tasks here, some containers,
make them live, like turn them on.
Yeah.
And it sounds like that's for devs as well.
Not just the infrastructure you're deploying to,
but it sounds like you're smoothing the path for the whole team, right?
Correct.
That's an opinion I hold that containers are for development as well.
like that that developer experience some organizations i've seen they may be deploying
on the communities because there were operational opinions about deploying into containers but the
developers themselves haven't adopted that fully on their local workstation because it may feel hard
until you've got that muscle built up for doing that level of development that's originally that's
why scaf came about is to make that development experience uh just a breeze like we you know we
we focused on how quickly can a developer be productive locally using containers and still
have all your tools. Like it shouldn't feel different than if you were developing with your
local Django files on your local file system and you were just running a Postgres instance,
you know, out of homebrew, except it's better because now the versions will match what's running
in production. And you can have five different projects running with five different versions of
things because you want to make sure they match your expectations when they go to launch and not
be surprised when you know the version of redis doesn't support some new operator because you're
one minor version off in your local machine compared to the sandbox and production machines
yeah i was not against containers but i was resistant to use them myself because i felt like
well here's another thing another thing to understand another thing that's a layer of
between me and my code and it's just,
it could go wrong and I don't need it.
And you know what?
I'm a believer.
It is so nice to be able to just say,
here's three commands you can run.
Exactly.
It's always going to be exactly.
And another thing that I've done is on my new Macs and stuff,
my dev machines, I don't put databases on there.
Nope.
No caching.
I don't even necessarily install Python directly.
on, you know, as in go to python.org or homebrew or something like that.
It's, if I want a tool and, you know, instead of installing say MongoDB, I can just have a
Docker command that runs MongoDB that listens on the same port and it's, it's always up to date.
And if I don't like it, I get rid of it. If I want to change the version of it, I just
change a flag somewhere in a file and it's, it's incredible. That and uv.
Yeah, I think back to the old days and the old days for us, but probably the current state for a lot of people in certain organizations is you had a large getting started document that you would have to follow top to bottom.
Make sure you get this version of that.
Make sure you get that version of this.
Make sure you put these files there.
Make sure your database is running with these couple extra options because we've enabled some.
Maybe we've enabled GIS or some extension to the database.
if you didn't get all those magic incantations just right and follow the document to the letter,
you were having a long time to get started. It was a struggle. Whereas you just tell someone,
get pull, and then we'll tilt up. In our case for SCAF, we've adopted the tilt management tool.
They're running and they can start contributing code within an hour. That's my goal. My goal has
always been fresh laptop out of the box on my desk and be able to contribute like a pull request in
an hour would be like yeah that's pretty excellent yeah that's pretty excellent so do you when you
guys are doing development do you actually do development in containers or do you just use
them to support all of your your stuff no everything's in containers uh that's that was
like scaf primarily i mean some people will see scaf as a deployment tool i see scaf as a developer
experience tool and a deployment tool. It covers both ends of that spectrum because everything
starts obviously with the developer and an idea and some building some software. Well, if they
can't build the software easily or they can't collaborate with another contributor on that
software, it slows things down. So part of what we, you know, that SCAF tool is, it's going to be
able to give you the scaffolding to build out an initial project. Like starting from scratch,
if you have nothing on the file system,
Scaf will build out those initial tools.
But then Scaf is a set of opinions, more importantly,
because lots of scaffolding tools exist out there.
I mean, current Scaf is built on cookie cutter,
but we can move those opinions
as we change our opinions about the development world.
So as we build a new project and let that get started,
we now can develop locally on containers.
Like we use Kind for Kubernetes cluster locally,
which is nice.
Can you think running Kubernetes might be overkill
for a local development environment?
But the nice part about that is,
now the Kubernetes manifests layer nicely.
You've got a local base layer, a local instance.
You've got a sandbox instance or a development instance
you may launch into the cloud someplace,
or you've got your production layers
all right in there using customize, for example.
Nice.
Yeah, nice part about that is,
if my machine doesn't have enough horsepower or memory or disk space to run a specific project
that where I need to jump in and help, I can just run that in the cloud. There's nothing saying I
have to be running that locally on my own machine. All the tooling, all the file synchronization
will work just as well if it's running in a sidecar. Like if I had a big white box Intel
machine sitting under my desk, I could run that. Or I can just launch it into DigitalOcean or
an AWS cloud doesn't matter. Yeah, absolutely. So let's dive in. Let's dive into Skaf. But
before we do, have you seen, I talked about this in the last episode, this, this new AI computer
thing that NVIDIA announced? I'm pretty excited about that, actually. I'm super excited. NVIDIA
unveils a $3,000 desktop AI computer. And I think it's just, you kind of remote in and run containers
on it as well i'm pretty sure yeah that i was i was excited because i felt like ces this is
obviously launched at ces by nvidia on stage and i was excited to see ces have something that was
interesting for developers again i feel like ces had kind of gotten boring maybe over the last
decade and this was exciting um i think that it's got to be all doorbells and tvs yeah right exactly
and i love home automation don't get me wrong uh but there's only so much of that junk i could
possibly interested in and this is something i'm very interested in exactly well jamie out in the
audience says totally all in on developing with containers very few tools installed on my mac
locally we're here with you awesome yeah the important tools like you've got your ide your
vs code you've got your you know you've got your favorite git visualization tool like i mean those
Those are critical to your tool chain, your workflow,
and they should work everywhere.
They should work just as work alike on every project you're on.
Yeah.
I agree.
I don't develop containers,
but I work with local virtual environments
and then basically try to replicate exactly the same.
But all the surrounding stuff,
all the daemons and the servers and all that is all like...
So we're at a slightly different stage of our container journey, I believe.
But we're both far down the path, I think.
Much further than we used to be.
That's for sure.
Oh, certainly.
All right.
Here we are.
Six feet up slash scaph on GitHub.
Yep.
Scaph provides developers and DevOps engineers with a complete blueprint for a new project
using Kubernetes.
We talked a lot about the motivation and so on, but let's start with the beginning.
You said, I have an idea for a project.
I want it well-structured.
So this is a little cookie cutter-ish in a sense,
but what it makes is more than just a Python project, right?
Tell us what we got here.
So this started out,
if you've ever followed the cookie cutter project,
there was a cookie cutter Django template out there
made by PyDanny.
It kind of kicked that off and started it.
I liked a lot of his opinions,
but I wanted more to it,
or I wanted to change some of them.
So that was the original kernel of where this started.
And then we grew a lot more around the deployment story
and some of the developer tools
so that we could be on Kubernetes.
We could standardize on Kubernetes as a container platform
so we could launch into any cloud,
whether it's a managed Kubernetes
or whether you're bare metal
and are running VMs in EC2, it doesn't matter.
Because the nice part about Kubernetes
is it gives you that agnostic interface
to launch new containers.
I think a lot of people see Kubernetes as complex
and used for container orchestration and scaling.
But I see Kubernetes as a way,
it's an interface, it's an API
to allow us to deploy easily.
So we wanted to focus on things like CI/CD
and could you make that simple?
So SCAF includes opinions around Argo CD, for example.
So when you deploy into Sandbox,
it deploys the Argo CD operator
and then it sits and watches your repository for changes.
So anytime you merge to the dev branch, for example,
it will release to sandbox
and then the QA team can go test.
And you don't have to think about it.
Like you just make a PR.
If it gets reviewed and accepted and merged,
the release happens.
Like no one forgets to do the release.
No one has to do manual steps to do the release.
Long gone are the days of shelling into a box
and doing a get pull or SVN up in a directory
and then forgetting to restart some service
to pick up those changes.
Because humans, we're humans.
We're terrible about repeatability
and maintaining and being able to do
maintenance type tasks like that.
We're just not built for it.
We're built for creative type thinking.
So we should let the computers do the bits they're good at,
which I feel like that's what some of these opinions
are based around is can we automate those pieces away?
Right, it's like a deployment checkbox.
Oh yeah.
Checklist as like check, check, check.
Have we installed this?
Do you set this version exactly?
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And some, some humans are good at checklists. Like there's people who are,
that is their thing. Like, you know, doctors and surgery, they love their checklists and glad
they've got them. I feel like people who have gravitated towards software development
are, are craftsmen, like kind of artisans, around, about a craft. And it's not so much about
checking check boxes as it is. How do they creatively solve a problem? Because a lot of
the problems they're solving haven't existed. If they existed already, they would be solved. And
writing any software yeah and that's why we have that it works on my machine program because
because we don't check the boxes and we're we're not amazing at making everything work the same but
yeah it's and and this is my my goal is that the getting rid of the works on my machine like it
should work everywhere this is exactly the same and you should be able to use your own machine
for development like a lot of i've seen a lot of teams where they have this big central server
that's called dev and that's where they all shell into and work simultaneously on a single spot
and that just feels fraught with uh errors and and terror to me yeah you know what it feels like
it screams to me is you might end up it doesn't work on my machine it only works on that machine
exactly even worse it only works i once worked on a research project with um pretty big funding
organization and there was a bunch of different contractors one of them out of seattle and we all
had to build some pretty complex software team i was on we built something that kind of coordinated
all of them and it was fine it worked great we were all happy the other people all delivered but
But there's this one team, they had built something on a big, big Linux server and big fat desktop thing.
Why do I know the size of it?
Because they had worked on it for nine months and then they tried to get it to run on another.
They literally could not get it to run on any other computer.
And so they put it into the most fragile or most careful shipping container they could.
and they drove it from Seattle to San Diego
and they set it up in the corner
'cause they literally couldn't get the software they wrote
to run on any other system.
Could you imagine?
Like, what are you gonna do in that next time around?
What if it breaks?
Yeah, I'm working on a big central server.
Maybe there's a way to like restore it and stuff,
but you could craft your software into a corner
on that big server where it's like,
well, we're gonna move to the cloud.
Like, no, we're gonna keep it on that thing.
it better just be enough, you know?
Right.
And how do you onboard someone new to help you?
Like, you gotta be like,
well, be very, very careful.
There's this one, only one server where it only runs.
Oh my goodness.
Onboarding is such a challenge there.
Yeah.
You want to be on,
but you want to be on board developers like with confidence
and they can have the confidence to know
that they can make mistakes
and they can burn things to the ground
and they can try stuff
knowing that it's not going to affect
like the production machine
or even the sandbox machine.
Like they can experiment with a little bit
of reckless abandon because that's how you learn.
Like you break things.
So in my mind, you break things to learn.
Like there's a lot of learning that happens
when you get to break things.
And if you can break things confidently
knowing that no big deal, I can just, you know,
get pull or, you know, put a branch
and delete that branch and start over.
100%.
And there's different layers at which people
should embrace that to the maximum.
They should embrace that in refactoring
and reorganizing.
right so if i have if i have git and i have frequent check-ins i should be able to go crazy
you shouldn't be like oh don't mess with that you might you should be able to go crazy on your code
and go oh my gosh it's better or that was a horrible idea revert exactly get rid of that
and it shouldn't not it should not be terror it should be like oh let's give that a try i bet that
would be awesome and if it's not we're gonna get out also though on the containers give you that
for your infrastructure locally and in the cloud.
What if we ran on the newest version of Postgres?
Yep, let's try it.
Is that amazing or is it a horrible idea?
Like, well, if you got the one server
that everyone's using, you're definitely,
or even a QA server, you're like,
we're not going to break everyone
because there's 10 people
who are going to lose their productivity
if we screw this up.
But I can change a number in a Docker file,
repeal and try it.
And I've seen this in action,
like in production, in action,
with our own customer stuff,
where a junior admin,
sysadmin was doing some standard maintenance activity,
maybe they accidentally dropped the database.
But if you have all the things lined up
and all the infrastructure set up
in this kind of optimal way,
it's no big deal.
It's like, no problem.
Like you go push,
you go run the command that like restores the DB.
Like for example,
one of our opinions in here is CloudNativePG.
So you have options.
Like we can use CloudNativePG in the cluster
and that does things like point in time restores, recovery.
You can be using RDS.
Those opinions can happen afterwards.
But given that the whole thing can be blown away
and redeployed in literally a moment's notice,
gives you a lot of confidence
in being able to bring something back
from a destructive action.
Yeah, absolutely.
I think we're both so excited about this.
We keep getting on tangents.
I originally wanted to ask you kind of,
how do I get started with this?
Like, talk us through.
Talk us through.
Oh, you'd like to try it?
I give people a sense of like,
if they don't, obviously most people don't have this already.
Like, what are they?
They want a new project.
They want it to have this more forward looking.
Yep.
So on that GitHub page, there's a one liner.
You can just copy paste into your terminal.
I think it's toward the, there it is right there.
I applaud you for not having the dollar at the beginning.
Thank you.
yeah yeah so and that one-liner will install a lot of the opinions um i've mentioned this before
to some people that scaf gives you all those kind of cool opinions cool tools like neat techniques
that as a developer like it takes like decades to refine and hone and kind of gain into your
toolbox scaph tries to give those to you like right away like so it's for example it's going
to install kubectl and kind and tilt and a couple other tools if they're not found on your system
and it'll use if you've got homebrew installed it'll just use homebrew out of the box to do that
and it puts it into your home directory it doesn't shouldn't require you know one of my goals is not
to require a pseudo anywhere in in this process you know there's no pseudo needed here for for that
curl command to run. And so it's, it's, it should be less impactful on your system than a lot of
other tools, but it gives you a lot of power for what you are installing. So you run that one liner,
it will now give you in like your dot local bin directory, a scaf CLI command that you'll be able
to run and you can just run scaf and then the name of the project you want to build. And it'll ask you
some questions. So this is the kind of cookie cutter part at that point is that it's going to ask you,
hey, do you want to build a Django app with a Next.js front-end?
And do you want to use Sentry?
Do you want to have Celery?
Just some standard questions.
What mail provider are you going to use?
So it gives you then on your file system a new, in this case, a Django project.
I'll talk about some of the future vision pieces of that,
but that's what it gives you today.
It also gives you, in addition to a standard Django project,
because you can get a Django project just by running the Django start project,
a Django admin start project command.
It would blow out a very simple version of a Django project.
But this has more to it.
There's some opinions about users and sites and some other things.
But not only that, there's going to be all the Kubernetes manifests for running locally.
There's going to be Terraform in there for deploying into a sandbox cloud, like on Amazon, for example.
So if you chose Amazon as your target cloud, there's going to be all these kind of other opinions in here.
What database we're using?
what if we're using celery we're going to use redis actually we should change that we're changing from
redis over to um valky uh at the moment as well yeah what is this uh so valky v-a-l-k-e-y
close okay val key which is the redis okay okay okay yeah okay well why why this uh just because
because of licensing changes on the reddest side of things.
I think that's another whole,
we could do a whole other podcast
on just open source licensing and interesting history.
You know, the Elastic folks did this with Elastic Cache.
I think the Reddest folks kind of were following suit,
but then you now you see-
I think Mongo did maybe a little bit as well.
Well, now you've seen the Elastic folks
kind of go back on that,
heading back toward the more open,
open source licensing.
We'll see.
I'm sympathetic to, at least some of these,
because they built these businesses and then the cloud folks are just like,
awesome.
We'll host that for you.
Thanks.
You're like,
wait a minute.
We were hoping to kind of,
yeah,
some kind of be that.
Yeah.
I can also totally understand like,
no,
we just want this stuff unencumbered.
Yeah.
It's not that complicated.
Probably.
We could probably make this work and we got together and teamed up and okay,
this is news to me.
This is awesome.
Yeah.
No,
it's again,
it's,
it's drop in replacement for the most current version of Redis.
I was actually just thinking about doing something with Reddits, but I think I might just do a little Norse legend type of stuff.
Try that out.
Russ out there asks, Wagtail?
Not yet.
I don't believe we have a Wagtail template, but I'll talk about that in the roadmap.
Yeah.
That's coming.
I guess it's worth pointing out to people that this is sort of at its core a Django philosophy, right?
Currently.
Okay.
We have some other use cases that we want to be able to satisfy with SCAF as well.
For example, instead of deploying into a cloud and like you've got Argo CD watching for continuous deployment type stuff,
what if you were deploying an appliance like into someone's data center and there were different concerns around security and updates and adopting updates and how it got updated?
We want to be able to support that use case.
So I would love to be able to support a fully serverless,
you know, SCAF Lite type environment
where maybe we're using Lambdas and DynamoDB and API Gateway
to deploy the backend in a totally serverless manner.
SCAF should be able to support that too.
It's not there yet.
That's definitely, that's the roadmap piece for sure.
Okay, there probably is some, I'm not totally up on it,
but it's probably some open source Valkey equivalent
docker-based lambda type stuff as well that you might be able to say we want to have a self-contained
serverless as part of this yeah for for for example the scaf challenge so if you
went to django con last year 6 p.m ran a scaf challenge where to see how fast you could
basically run and get a running django project on your machine in kubernetes running locally ready to
develop. The winner did it in 26 seconds from running scaf to Django actually ready to respond
to HTTP requests. Wow. That backend that tracked it was all done in Dynamo, Lambda, and API Gateway
using the SAM framework. And so on Amazon, there's the serverless application framework that they've
got called SAM, which is really nice because you can run it all locally. You just, you know, do SAM
SAM serve or whatever, SAM start.
And it spins up containers locally.
You spin up your Dynamo container locally.
So I had the whole thing running on my own machine,
much in the way that's why I like about SCAF
is it all runs locally.
It all is contained and I can play with it.
I can destroy it.
I can make mistakes.
And then when I'm ready, I make a pull request.
Yeah.
One of the things that I'm always apprehensive about
is building apps that have to have lots of cloud services
constantly active, right?
And not just because I want to be able to, say,
work in a coffee shop with poor internet connectivity
or on an airplane or something like that,
but also I feel like there's probably some leakage.
I mean, I just heard an ad on some podcast about it
for a company whose job is to go and look at all the AWS
or Azure stuff you're doing that you might have left running
and it's costing you $10,000 a month
people just forgot about you know they'd be like oh let's try this you should say that we've had
that oh really tell us a story yeah i mean that's another thing that's another reason again for
parts we're adding into scaf around like compliance and cost controls uh we're i'm a big fan of an
open source tool called cloud custodian which is a event driven cloud compliance tool so if you
haven't checked it out and cloud custodian is a really cool great tool for compliance but also
fin ops, like, you know, making sure your dev instances aren't running 24 seven, when they
really only need to run probably eight hours a day, they don't need to run on weekends, like cloud
custodian can shut those things down. So that's something we were adding into scaf right now,
is some minimum set of things like make sure any cloud resources to get deployed are properly tagged,
you know, they tagged with an environment like production or development, are they tagged with a
cost center or whatever your policies may be. But that will help you avoid those kind of instances
where we had, for example,
someone spun up a spot instance.
Well, if you're not familiar with Amazon,
you can request spot instances,
which are kind of excess EC2 VMs
that are hanging out.
And if someone releases one,
you can pick it up and use it cheaper.
And they're typically meant to be used temporarily,
but you request them
and they come asynchronously to you.
So you could go into your console and request one.
And if it doesn't come right away,
you'd be like, shoot, that didn't work.
And you could take off,
go get a coffee and get lunch
and then totally forget you requested the spot instance
for a giant GPU, whatever.
That is ready.
And then it'll show up later in the day.
And if you don't go and turn it off,
you'll pay for it for the month,
which was $10,000 for one of them
once that happened to us.
So putting in place the fact that
if someone did spin up an instance like that,
Cloud Custodian would be watching for it
and would shut it down within a day
if it didn't follow whatever your policy is
for starting up new kinds of instances.
That's really cool.
We're learning about a lot of cool open source tools here
This is great.
And that's why they're all packaged into SCAF
because not everyone knows about all these things.
So we're trying to take like our kind of cumulative
six feet up journey of 25 years of being on the internet
and deploying software and developing software
and packaging those opinions into like one spot
where it's kind of like someone took our brains,
collective brains, and put them into a code repository.
And now we can deploy and develop
like we've been doing it for 25 years.
Yeah, it's like, well, that was a really sharp edge.
Let's see if we can.
somebody's like um guys i'm sorry but uh there's a big bill and there was a big bill uh look i'll
give a shout out to amazon uh i contacted them and they they did refund us for that accidental
bill they're generally pretty good about it if you make that mistake once now you gotta make sure you
show them you can demonstrate to them you've put in place things to not have it happen again
okay because you might you might pay for it again yeah i honestly work in the cloud is super scary
in that regard, you know, when it's overly automated.
So one of the things, speaking of deployments
and all this that I do when I'm working on my Docker stuff
is I'll set up a Docker compose file.
That's kind of my Zen right now.
Yeah.
And in there, you can set deployment limits.
Like this container can only use so much CPU
more significantly for me usually.
It's like this container can only use one gig of RAM,
even though the server's got 16.
Tell it it has one.
And the reason that I think that's super useful is, you know, something goes crazy or starts using too much memory or something like that.
You could say, oh, there's something going on here without it taking down everything else.
And there's other things, especially databases.
They're like, oh, I've got 16 gigs.
I was just going to load everything into memory because that'll be more efficient.
Like, no, no, no.
You're sharing this with everyone.
Could you just load the indexes into your two gigs?
It'll be good, right?
Is there stuff like that here?
Yeah, exactly.
And our opinions on that are in the Kubernetes world.
You can be able to put in resource limits and priorities.
This actually also literally happened to us.
Again, all of our experience, you get to benefit from.
If you aren't careful with Kubernetes.
I think every one of these would have a little double dagger thing.
You click on it.
Here's the horror story why this is here.
Here's the story why this is here.
Because that's the truth.
If you don't use resource limits on Kubernetes,
they will absolutely stomp on each other.
Kubernetes is an amazing orchestrator
and it will do exactly what it's told.
And if you've told it that this doesn't have limits,
it will give it all the things all the time.
And you can run into a situation, for example,
if you're using Cloud Native PG,
your database is in the cluster,
which means it's orchestrated by the cluster.
If you don't give it any limits
and you're running multiples and you do a backup,
the resources when you do a backup go up.
Yes, 100%.
like scans through all of the data.
Yeah, all the things.
Why is it using three gigs?
It was using just one.
Oh, because I asked for a full backup.
Well, and I'll tell you what it'll do
is it'll consume all the resources on one node
and then it'll fail over orchestrated.
It'll fail over to the second node
and then use all the resources on the second node
and then it'll corrupt your database
and crash the whole thing.
Now, if you put in the resource limits
and the priorities,
because what it should do
is it should go off and be like,
hmm, there's a lot of Django instances running
that probably don't need to be.
I can kill those first.
I can save resources.
I can orchestrate smartly for you
only if you smartly configure it.
Right, right.
Here's my goal is to not let this get out of control.
Help me with that.
Don't just feed it everything.
Yeah.
Yeah, it's interesting.
A lot of these servers are like,
we could do better if we could just take it.
We could load up more and pre-cache more,
but they don't work well together like that.
Right.
Yeah.
I mean, they're greedy.
They're going to try and take the resources they need
to do the job they need to do,
but they can be told to be less greedy
And Kubernetes is how we do that.
Yeah, more importantly, they can be forced to be less.
You need to stay in line.
Do what you got.
You're not getting any more.
All right, let's talk through the building blocks here.
You mentioned a couple of them,
but there's a big long list of things
that I think is going to be pretty interesting to people.
Start with Django.
Yeah.
And then let's go down the building block.
When I make an app like this, it has an opinion.
It looks like as well.
It's not just a vanilla Django app.
Correct.
Yeah, you could be doing asynchronous tasks.
So that's why there's a Celery opinion in there.
Like if you've got a project,
you know you're going to have jobs in the background.
Sure, let's get Celery installed.
If you're doing something with a fancy front end
and you like React,
our opinion is really to use Next.js.
And if you install Next.js,
you'll get like the strawberry GraphQL stuff out of the box,
which is kind of nice.
And Apollo on the front end,
if the Next.js is also chosen.
So some GraphQL opinions have been made
and the plumbing laid to make it just work,
which is kind of hard sometimes.
If you're diving into a new technology
like React and GraphQL,
it's nice to have some opinions
and to have them pre-wired up for you
so you can just kind of follow the pattern
that's already been laid for you.
Okay.
I'm told that Next.js is really, really popular.
Yeah.
Tell us what is Next.js.
I mean, Next.js is a set of opinions around React.
much in the way that, for example,
like Zope and Plone were opinions
around how to do a Python web framework.
Next.js is kind of a packaging of some opinions
about how I would deploy and write React applications
and keep them up to date.
For anyone who's done a React application,
you can start with the standard React demo application.
But from there, you start adding on it.
Again, I'm definitely not the node
and um typescript javascript front end person but dependency um spaghetti mess will happen very
quickly in this world or can happen very quickly in this world which will lead you into a spot where
it's really difficult to upgrade your react um application to get all the dependencies upgraded
and there's security vulnerabilities and issues you need to be aware of and performance things so
you want to make sure you can stay on top of those versions and next js is basically a set of
guidelines and opinions that should help guide you down a more happy path. And that's why we chose
it. I think even the React folks tend to suggest using Next instead of just React on its own,
because you get those opinions and should have an easier time keeping things up to date.
Yeah. I know the JS stuff feels like it's so complicated, but it's again, because we're asking
more and more. People have high expectations of the web applications that they interact with on a
basis.
It's just,
it's just a fact of life that people expect,
have expectations about how things are going to behave and the experience
are going to get.
Yeah.
They're like,
Gmail's cool.
Google maps is cool.
Can ours do that?
Like,
you realize this is a static website.
Yeah.
And then if we keep kind of going down this list,
I mean,
we've,
we've standardized on Postgres and that's historic.
We,
we,
probably 15 years ago,
used MySQL.
And that was back in the days
of MySQL silently dropping data on you.
But I don't think...
You got enough?
I mean, you got enough of your data, Kev?
It's exactly what it was.
So we switched to Postgres
and haven't looked back.
And there's just a lot of exciting things happening there.
So if you're not on Postgres,
I highly recommend it.
Good bet there,
because if you look at the surveys and stuff,
Like the majority of people are doing that,
especially if they're doing relational databases.
Like it's Postgres and then you better justify
why you're not using Postgres these days.
And then if you're going to run Postgres
and you're running Kubernetes,
you're going to want to have some kind of an operator
to manage it for you
because you want to have high availability.
You want to have data backups.
And that's what CloudNativePG gives you.
You can back up into S3 buckets
or you can back up into, you name it.
There's multiple kinds of targets that are supported,
but it manages all that hard complexity for you.
If you've ever set up Postgres replication
and high availability on your own
and had to deal with all the wall files
and moving them around and backing them up,
it's a sophisticated beast,
a complicated, sophisticated beast,
and no one wants to deal with that.
And that's what CloudNativePG does for you.
It gives you a UI and a way to configure it
and away you go.
And then after that, we have Valkey.
Yeah, Valkey,
which is our Redis drop-in replacement.
if you're not using Redis in your Django apps,
you should be, even if nothing more
than just the Django template cache,
I would turn that on.
We've been using Mailhog for our email locally.
So this is a local development tool,
developer tool allows you to simulate email being sent
off of your development instance
without actually sending email anywhere.
- It's a little bit like mocking email.
- Yeah, yeah, it's super nice.
It runs an SMTP server, it gives you a web UI.
It looks like real email, it gives you an inbox.
So you can basically see what your end users are gonna see.
Argo is the CI/CD product.
So that's open source GitOps.
So it watches your repositories,
kind of tracks the status of the deployments.
- Okay, so you basically pick a prod branch
or something like that and you push the prod then.
- Yep.
- Magic happens.
- Yeah, Argo does the magic behind that.
And you can see that it also gives you a bit of a insights
into your cluster, you know, what's running,
what's being deployed, what state they're in, you know,
handles all the like blue green, you know, rollout of new code, new, new pods and new containers
into your, your clusters. It's yeah. You probably can set up a QA cluster as well. Yep. Right. And
just pick a different branch and have it watch that. Right. Well, that's what we do. So in,
inside the scaf built skeleton, you get on your file system, you're going to have a Kubernetes
manifest directory that has a base set of manifests, which are, this is what's needed to
define the deployment and the services and all the bits. And then each environment, for example,
like the sandbox environment has an Argo running that will be watching for sandbox changes and the
production environment will be watching for production changes. Another thing we standardize
on here that's not listed is things like sealed secrets. So you can check in your secrets to your
Git repository for sandbox, for example, but the only machine on the planet that can decrypt them
is the sandbox instance, because you actually use the sealed secrets operator to do the encryption.
And the only way it can be decrypted is if those things are sitting in that cluster,
in the sandbox cluster or in the production cluster. So what's nice is the sandbox cluster
cannot decrypt the production secrets. So you can have, obviously you want to have different secrets
for production than you do for sandbox. So you can have least privilege, you know, developers have
access, maybe more unvetered access to sandbox, but they may have more limited access on production
and tools like Sealed Secrets and Customize and Kubernetes Manifests and Sealed Secrets
actually make all that work. Okay. Yeah. And that's, that's news to me as well. This one,
I love it. I do something similar with my things as well. Like I know a lot of people have huge
environment variable definitions of all their, I'm like, yeah, you just, you just need one value
that unlocks the other, you know, highly encrypted stuff.
Now for someone actually asked a question
I'm getting ready to answer,
which is about external secrets and services
for those things.
Local development, we have an opinion around
using one password for all of our secrets management,
whether it's like passwords for websites or API keys
or in this case, development environment,
database passwords, development environment,
you know, secrets like Django has a secret, Django secret in there, things like that.
Those are actually, in our case, environment variables.
And we use the one password command line tool to only decrypt them ever in memory.
So when you run like the Django start or like the anytime you run the Kubernetes cluster locally in kind,
it will feed those environment variables via the config map into your cluster
so that it can access the database in the cluster locally.
So even locally, you have a long, random,
unknown password to you that is,
but actually stored in 1Password.
So if you want to go use your,
you know, I use Postico as a GUI
for accessing my local Postgres,
I can use that.
I can actually feed it the data from 1Password
and actually access my services.
So locally using 1Password
and environment variables and config maps.
But when I'm going to sandbox,
we just use sealed secrets on sandbox in production
for mostly cross-platform consistency.
You could be using SSM parameter store on Amazon
or Secrets Manager on Amazon,
but then that won't work on Google or won't work on Azure.
And so we just standardize around the sealed secrets
for ease of deployment to any cluster
in any platform anywhere.
Yeah, the one password new CLI stuff
and SSH secret provider, whatever you call that thing.
Yeah, it is super nice.
Yeah.
Yeah, if you've not turned on the SSH keys
for your 1Password CLI,
I have no secret keys,
no SSH keys,
no API credentials.
I have no secrets on my file system unencrypted.
They're living in 1Password
and 1Password proxies that access when needed.
Yeah, that's pretty neat.
I feel like I should maybe embrace that more.
I embrace 1Password a lot,
but there's more.
Especially when you're working on multiple projects and multiple environments and you want to have that least privilege access.
You don't want to have one key to rule them all.
You want to have keys to get you access to sandbox, keys that can get you access to production.
And you want to be able to give only certain people access to those production keys and only certain people access to sandbox keys.
And we actually do that with Microsoft 365 shop.
We use Microsoft's Entra directory service,
which is their Azure Active Directory product.
And we use security groups.
And so based on what security groups
or what project you're working on
gives you access to only certain vaults
inside of one password.
It gives you access to only certain accounts
inside of Amazon.
And those kinds of things
are all wired up to our single sign-on platform.
Yeah, very nice.
Traffic?
Traffic is just an ingress controller.
It's like a load balancer type thing?
Yeah, it's a load balancer kind of cloud.
If you rethought about a web server
and it was cloud native and containers
and understood clusters like Kubernetes clusters,
this is what traffic is.
I see.
So maybe a better analogy would be like Nginx or...
Yeah.
Yeah, I mean, I think we all grew up on Nginx
and made it do all the crazy reverse proxy things.
like traffic is the born born in the cloud native world version of that now nginx has their own
ingress controller as well that they've rewritten to be more cloud native that's just what traffic
is for us cert manager again handling things like tls certificates and renewals and you name it
cert manager make sure that how's that different than um let's encrypt and cert bot and things like
that uh i mean it's really similar in those cases i think actually cert managers i think is using
let's encrypt under the covers um i could be wrong on that one maybe more cluster focus because that
could be a real challenge well because a lot of the again another beauty of kubernetes
i don't think a lot of people talk about is the operators these are like you know kind of
extensions or plugins to the kubernetes cluster that give you superpowers to do things like make
sure the search are always you know renewed make sure the latest code is always deployed
make sure the database is highly available and backed up make sure you know that's what these
operators do in the kubernetes world is they're like just plugins to your cluster that give you
these extended capabilities okay and that's what cert manager is it's another one of those
so and that handles the certificates and ingress routes that's all like kind of
traffic cert manager certificates it's all yeah it's all together all together
won't give you the certificate unless it can prove that that certificate that that domain
routes back to that thing.
And yeah, it's great,
but it does get a little complicated
in Docker already.
And then I can imagine
auto scaling clusters.
Right.
You want it all just to work.
Yeah.
You don't want the certificate expired.
Warning, danger.
Do not proceed to this website.
Oh no.
All right.
We got Prometheus in the house.
Well, and Prometheus and Grafana
are kind of together here.
It's nice to have a observability,
be able to see stats
and trending data
to be able to make decisions
on how you're scaling.
or handling load.
It's hard to predict sometimes
what a service is going to do
when you go deploy it to real users.
Real users have an uncanny knack
of pushing buttons
and making things happen
that produce lots of crazy edge cases.
This part was slow,
so I just kept pushing the button.
Like, you realize how much more load you put on.
It was already slow because it could handle it.
And you'd prefer that you know about these problems
before your users report them to you.
So tools like Prometheus and Grafana and Loki.
So Loki specifically is log aggregation.
Prometheus is going to be a lot of metrics.
And we combine those all into like Grafana dashboards.
The trick here is, you know, you want to be able to get all the data,
but then you got to make something meaningful of the data.
And so we try to put in some, you know, default dashboards that give you that.
If I was stuck on an island, what was the one screen of information
I might need to make a business decision about what's happening here?
type view of things and not overload you with too much information,
but you want to be able to dive deeper and see, Oh, you know,
when the database backup kicks in,
the IO all of a sudden goes crazy.
And that's why we're seeing a dip in here.
And that's why there was a failover,
like be able to trace back those things without data is impossible.
And you only, again,
because we're in a clustered world and there's lots of interdependencies and
these things can scale out.
You could have many, many nodes running these, these, these tools.
you got to have some way of getting a,
I hate to say it, a single pane of glass.
I'll put that out there.
- I can see my entire business
in a single pane of glass.
It is humming smoothly.
- Yeah, I'm sure all the,
all the marketing person is just,
- They all just cringe to like,
oh my God, he just said it.
He just said the thing.
- Some people cringe and say,
"Yes, they're speaking my language."
Out there, Michael in the audience says,
the media cube Prometheus is all of the pre-configured
dashboards for K8s out of the box.
awesome stuff yeah yeah yeah definitely i mean there's there's so many good example dashboards
on grafana that it is no reason not to be using this for observability and this is like the table
stakes like you better start here and you better just do it and but a lot of people deploy an app
and then they they i mean how many times have you worked with another developer and you know they
were like well if something's wrong i can't figure out why and the first thing you tell them i guarantee
you michael the first thing you tell them to do is did you look in the logs and they're like no i
didn't look in the logs i'm like well that's the first thing you do is go look at the logs
no no that's the second thing you tell them what's the first first thing is do you have logging
it's true okay yes i'm looking at them fair enough i was about to ask you though like do you have do
you have logging set up in this and do you have like log guru or do you have logbook or do you
just do python logging or what's the story yeah so i mean we're using containers so things should
be set up to log as we would expect them in Kubernetes. So kind of like the, if you've ever
looked at the 12 factor app, you know, there's opinions about how logging should happen. That's
what we adhere to is like the logging should end up in a natural spot where it's easy for us to
aggregate with tools like Prometheus and Grafana and actually then action and do something with
them. So we typically have another SSH into other machines to see, well, what's this thing doing?
What's that doing?
And that's one thing.
I want to have no SSH into these clusters.
Actually, one of our deployment opinions here is using things like Talos Linux for our Kubernetes deployments.
Talos does not have a SSH shell enabled.
Talos Linux has the ability to launch Kubernetes clusters.
So you can use kubectl to manage your Kubernetes.
But then you have Talos CTL to manage Talos.
And there's no reason to shell into a box.
just another security surface that you can now get rid of.
Yeah. Very interesting.
There's a couple of these single purpose Linux distributions out there that are
really, really cool.
We've evaluated quite a few, and this is the one we picked.
I liked its opinions. I liked its approach.
I like the community that's behind it.
One thing when you're picking a lot of these software tools is you need to look
at the communities. You need to see how active they are.
You need to understand, is this going to be a viable project five years from now?
because these are opinions you'll pick now
and you'll have to live with for potentially a long time.
That's a great point.
Is this going to be your hobby project
that you're going to have to keep it running for everyone else?
Or is this thing got a life of its own?
Because I don't need another hobby.
Yeah, exactly.
We want this to be for real.
Yeah.
Let's do one more shout out of all the building blocks here.
Century, you know, long time sponsor and friend of the show.
Yeah.
So again, observability tools like this,
especially when it comes to like tools like century or even data dog and new relic we just
happen to pick century because i like again like the community i like the people who are behind
that tool i can't tell you how much time a tool like century has saved us when trying to diagnose
and debug performance issues i know it has lots and lots of features it can do but when you're
looking at a stack and you've got a you know n plus one you know performance issue going on with
your database queries, and its integrations with Django,
its integrations with Redis and Postgres,
just make tracking down that kind of stuff so much easier.
Again, I'll go back to that 2020, 2021,
when we launched Loudswarm as a virtual event platform space,
being able to deliver the schedule to a React application quickly
as it's changing throughout the day
was actually a big performance challenge.
And Sentry highlighted exactly where the problems were.
and then we just implemented a simple redis cache that took us from 90 second generation of the
schedule down to like milliseconds uh and that's because we were able to pinpoint the issue really
really carefully and really really closely with sentry uh it just it bubbles up your problems
and now you just go pick off the low hanging fruit yeah that's awesome i've also used it for
air monitoring stuff and it's i'm more than i know i say this on the show for some of the ads but
more than once and this is not an ad but i've certainly gotten an error and it's got all the
variables not just the stack trace but actually the variables of what user ran in the problems and
all sorts of stuff and i reached out to multiple people said i see you ran this problem i'm really
sorry i fixed it give it another try and i'm sure that's a creepy experience in the one way but also
geez yeah that doesn't happen very often but you know like well i fixed it and i know who it is i
might as well tell them like, hey, sorry, you hit this.
Yeah.
One tool we've not mentioned here that is not in this list that I think is super important
to our scaf stack is Tilt.
That is the local Kubernetes management tool of choice that we have picked.
And if you've not played with Tilt, we've gone through different tools along the way.
There was one called Scaffold and I can't remember the other ones we try.
There's numerous ones out there who basically sit in this space and try and solve this problem.
but the killer feature for tilt was two-way sync between your cluster and your local machine
so again if you're running locally and using kind you probably don't notice anything because tilt is
watching your file system synchronizing your files into the kubernetes cluster for you to work but it
also does the reverse one of the key bits i wanted was when you do a compilation of your requirements
for you know your project you're running django and you've got a whole set of requirements
if you get in some trickier things like around the data science world there may be things that
compile differently on mac os than on Linux than on windows because they use some slightly different
dependencies that can be tricky when you're working in a container world so you want to make sure
you're doing your pip-tools compile well via uv but your pip-tools compile in the container in the
target environment of where this is going to be deployed and built because you'll get different
results if you ran that pip-tools compile on your mac as opposed into the Linux vm or Linux
container that's true so platform specific wheels yeah yeah so the tools like tilt make sure that i
can run my thing in the container and the result of it synchronizes back to my file system and then
i check that into the repository uh that was that was a key bit there and it's again it has a lot of
other cool things nice UI like when you if you fire up scaf at the very end of it it'll tell you
congratulations you've got a new you know project on your file system uh cd into your project and
just type tilt up you type tilt up yeah and you hit space bar i think it is and it launches a web
browser with uh all the status of all the containers that are running locally you can see all the
logging you can tilt watches for changes to your local file system for the code tilt watches for
changes to the docker files if you change the docker file out from underneath tilt like while
you're developing say you're adding a new layer a new dependency or something that's needed in
Docker and not in your Python, tilt will rebuild the container immediately for you. Like without
you having to do anything, like you just, you just kind of, you just code along and tilt keeps up.
Wow. That's awesome. Yeah. It's a little bit like setting your unit has to run on every save.
Exactly. It is. And it's fast. Sometimes you can barely even notice. Like if you're,
if you're working in a very late layer in the build, those builds can happen really,
quickly because most of the stuff's cached. There's another set of opinions. We've really
tried to finely tune all the caching in the Docker files and all the layers so that these images build
fast, they build slim, they use caches. So if you're running locally, it's going to cache things
locally in your file system. If you blow things away and start over again, it doesn't take forever
to download all the stuff. It should be pulling from your local cache. Yeah, that's a big shift
when you're doing container type stuff oh yeah because you some folks may have a a not great
experience with containers because of the size of some of these things and because they're not
effectively using caching this is a game changer right it 100 is and just maybe potentially just
reordering or splitting up commands can make oh yeah 10 10x difference in speed well and you were
the one who convinced me to switch over to uv uh inside their container builds as well and that
absolutely sped things up. Speed is a feature. I know you had that interview with Charlie,
and that was one of the things that came out of that stuck in my head is speed is a feature,
and I take that everywhere with me. Yeah, that's awesome. It's a cheap
T code for sure. It's like, oh, we could just be 10 times. Let's try that. That's awesome. And then,
yeah, you can layer on more caching on top of that and make it even more ridiculous.
Totally. All right. I think that's probably it for the time to talk through this. What a cool
project you got here. Let's, let's close it out with a roadmap. So we got a lot of things coming.
One of the big ones is a big shift from using cookie cutter, which I've mentioned already to
using copier as our underlying templating product. The big copier is yeah, yeah. So copiers like
cookie cutter actually should drop in replacement for cookie cutter, you can use your cookie cutter
templates you've already built with copier but now you can actually modularize them and upgrade them
so a lot of problem one of the problems with cookie cutter was it was kind of one and done
like you blew out your template onto the file system you've got your code that's the last time
you would touch cookie cutter but if new opinions come around which we're constantly adding new
opinions to scaf about how we do dev and how we do deployment you would want those to roll back
into old projects that had been built with that same tool.
Copier enables this.
Copier now allows us to rerun against an existing project
and adopt new opinions that have been made
from the source template.
And that's another change we're making
is we're actually allowing Scaf
to have multiple template types.
So right now the Scaf kind of runs
in a full stack Django app mode.
We're gonna have the Scaf Lite version,
which is maybe serverless.
We're gonna have the appliance mode,
which would enable not using Argo CD, for example,
but different ways of updating,
will have opinions that are not Django necessarily.
They may be more data pipeline versions of your apps.
And so those will be templates that can be updated
and redeployed and kept up to date with copier.
That's cool.
Yeah, I can see a whole concept of this
for ML workloads and data science workflows.
And we don't necessarily need a web app exactly.
what we need is data ingestion and detail.
And we want results, either notebook
or just something in a database on the other end of them.
- Yeah.
Yeah, that's a big deal.
And that's another thing that is included in Scaf Opinions
is the CI pipelines, like GitHub Actions, Bitbucket Act,
workflows or whatever their CI thing is called.
'Cause those are important.
I think to be there, those need to be there day one
'cause they're so hard to tack on later
or you just get busy and you don't tack them on
of yeah it's it's good to have all these um all this experience and all these rounded off rough
edges put together in one box for you it's very cool all right well we're certainly out of time
calvin so how about but we've got two things to close this out unlike normal so let's close it
out with a final call to action people are interested in scaf yeah they should definitely
They go, they star it.
Yep, go to star it.
I got to log in apparently.
Yeah, go to the 6up slash GAF GitHub repository.
It's a one-liner to install.
I would love to hear your feedback.
You know, any feature requests,
you know, any bugs you find.
We've worked really hard on ironing out
a lot of those issues over the last year
as we kind of pushed toward DjangoCon last year.
It's amazing and mind-blowing
to see how fast you can get a Django project
up and running on your own machine
with Kubernetes in the mix.
And maybe people need a little background information.
Like they're like, I've heard of Kubernetes.
What do I do with it?
Like you got good resources for them to...
Oh, on YouTube, there's an excellent YouTuber.
I can't remember.
Her name's Nana.
So if you just search Nana and Kubernetes,
she does an incredible job of explaining
giving Kubernetes to everybody.
Yeah.
I believe it's Nana codes.
She's awesome.
She's really good.
Yeah.
Great way of explaining these kind of deeper technology things.
That's literally where I went.
I was like,
I need to know more about Kubernetes.
I went and watched her videos.
I've met her in person.
She's actually an AWS hero.
And she was at reInvent a couple of years ago.
And just again,
superhuman being doing this for the love of technology.
yeah actually i can give a shout out also to uh one of the people in the chat uh michael levin
is uh also a prolific youtuber on uh kubernetes oh no kidding okay i'll put a link to his
his channel as well awesome all right well calvin thank you for being here it's been awesome i can't
tell you how excited i i was about the opportunity yeah it's been super fun and i was excited as well
So much so, so much so that I've made a theme song for this episode.
I'm not going to play it on the YouTube live stream version.
It's just the logistics of that are a little bit challenging.
But I'll put a link in the YouTube description in a day or two.
And when the show comes out, it's going to be at the end.
So if you're listening to the MP3 version of Podcast Player, be sure to listen to the end.
There's going to be a fun thing.
Yeah.
So here's the thing.
If you like Linkin Park and that style of music, you're going to love it.
If you hate Linkin Park, maybe call it a show.
Anyway, it's going to be super fun.
I'll put Let's Deploy the Dream at the end.
It'll be a great theme song to round things out.
And with that, Calvin, thanks for being on the show.
Awesome. Thanks, Michael.
Yeah, bye.